---
layout: post
title: 2021 OKRS
date: 2021-01-02 09:00:00 -0000
---

# 2021 OBJECTIVES AND KEY RESULTS

Stephanie and I had a conversation yesterday about what would make 2021 a “good” year for ourselves, and I got to thinking that maybe this could be an interesting time to apply the [Objectives and Key Results (OKRs)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Objectives_and_key_results) framework we use at work to my personal life. Because I’m a geek like that. So what would mine be for 2021? (Bear with me as I totally ignore the shit storm of 2020 and the continued fallout into 2021 from it.)

But first, what are OKRs?

I like how they are described at [perdoo](https://www.perdoo.com/resources/online-guides/okr-guide):

> An OKR consists of an Objective, which tells you where to go, and several Key Results, which are the results you need to achieve to get to your Objective. Initiatives are all the projects and tasks that will help you achieve your Key Results.

To me, they are better than New Years Resolutions in that they define the why for what you wish to achieve and are intended to NOT be all or nothing. Below I’ll list out some high-level Objectives (the “where I’m wanting to go”) with some Key Results follow (how do I measure that I’m getting there?) for the year.

So, what are mine for the coming year? (Note that some are really more long-term than the next year, but fuck you don’t be pedantic).

## OBJECTIVE: LIVE A LONG AND HEALTHY LIFE
I like the idea of being able to go on hikes with my grandkids and live to maybe see my great-grandkids and not be sitting in a charge for 24 hours a day as I hit 80. This does have some differences from just “being healthy” - I don’t aspire to run a 5 minute mile again or deadlift 500 lbs, I want to be able to walk when I'm 95 and play catch when I’m 75 while being mentally present.
- KR: One day or less of drinking/week (measure x/52 weeks)
- KR: Home cooked meals daily (measure x/365 days)
- KR: Some form of regular cardio (measure x/365 days)
- KR: Lift weights 3 days/week (measure x/52 weeks)
- KR: Sleep 7.5 hours/night (measure x/365 days)
- KR: Do a daily fast once per month (measure x/12 months)
- KR: Reach a healthier long-term weight of 170lbs (measure from 185lbs)

## OBJECTIVE: BE A GOOD FAMILY MAN
We plan on having kids this year, and I want to make sure I’m doing my part for our household, being a good husband, and preparing for our first child.

- KR: Complete work making house more livable (basement remodel, yard, finishing)
- KR: Actively participate in child prep (books, appointments) and care
- KR: Spend time 5 days a week training the dog (measure x/52 weeks)
- KR: Improve communication with Stephanie through regularly touch-in conversations

## OBJECTIVE: DEVELOP A “DEEP LIFE”

I’m a fan of Cal Newport’s “Deep Work” philosophy, and also enjoy the extension of this to every day life to create a “Deep Life” (also this) - one filled with spending intentional time on things that are worth spending time on. The biggest item here is getting my life mind back in a practice where I can focus again, after spending the last 10 months giving myself leeway due to COVID and having fully scattered days as a manager at work.

- KR: Meditate daily (measure x/365 days)
- KR: Journal week-daily (measure x/261 days)
- KR: Less than 30 minutes of mindless screen time daily (measure x/365)
- KR: Establish and develop three creative hobbies through daily time spent (measure x/365 +/- travel times)
- KR: Switch to an IC role where I can develop my craft of programming

## OBJECTIVE: BECOME FINANCIALLY INDEPENDENT
This Objective is a bit more of the “what” than the “why” than I wish to put here, but given the benefits of becoming financially independent (freedom in what you work on, given that I still want to work after becoming “FI”) I did want to put some distinct results KR’s around finances. We’re already starting the year in a pretty good place, so these mostly focus on reducing some spending so we can get to a place where we no longer need to work faster.

- KR: Reduced recurring/daily life spending to under $2000/month (not counting housing expenses and travel)
- KR: Do monthly budget check-ins
- KR: Develop a concrete number where we consider ourselves to be financially independent
- KR: Reduce food waste significantly (we waste a fair amount of money on wasted food)

## CLOSING THOUGHTS
For the most part, these are pretty self-centered and privileged OKR’s, and I acknowledge that. I considered putting in some around family and friends, but decided against that as it isn’t something I particularly want to track and charity is similar.

I’ll likely follow up in another post on how I’m tracking these, so this idea isn’t over!
