---
layout: post
title: 2026 OKRS
date: 2026-01-03 09:00:00 -0000
---

# 2026 OKRs

Following onto my OKRs from... [5 years ago]({% post_url 2021-01-02-okrs %})... I thought I'd try the exercise again. First I will start with a review of last year.

## 2025 Review

2025 was a year where my thinking of it was primarily driven by outside factors. My dad died. My kids were young and... a lot of work. I was laid off. These are the big things I think of through the year, but weren't particularly actionable "I did this well/poorly" things. So how did the year go?

### What went well?

- I kept to my goal of lifting weekly (175 total gym sessions) and progressed a bit there.
- I didn't spiral when my dad passed - it was hard as hell and it still is, but I'm still living a good life.
- Maybe just correlating with getting a new job that I enjoy more, but I'm finding myself more focused and haven't been spending as much mindless time on my phone doom-scrolling. Mentally I feel pretty clear.
- I really enjoyed taking the summer off with the family. I loved the time I spend with the kids.
- I finally started work at a startup which is something I've wanted to do for a long time.
- I made some new friends and spent more time than last year trying to cultivate relationships.

### What went poorly?

- I'm still not where I want to be health wise - I'm 20-40lbs over where I feel most comfortable and my cardio is garbage.
- I'm still struggling to fit everything in. Being effective and efficient with my time is something I need to work on still.
- The "relationships" candle is still burning low in my life. While I have a couple good online chats with friends, I could improve with my in-person friendships (and extending this beyond just having our kids hang). Also, Stephanie and I could focus a bit more on US this year beyond just us being parents. Lastly, family has taken a more utilitarian bent without us focusing as much on the emotional needs of each other.
- While I'm at a startup like I wanted, I still don't have a great direction for myself.
- We're not making many memories. We're still somewhat in the "survival" state of parenting it feels like and I'm hopeful in the coming year with the girls stopping naps, talking, and just growing up more we will begin to emerge and do fun things again.
- We spend so much fucking money on groceries and I don't even understand how.

## Objectives and Key Results

Below are some high-level objectives for the year and some key results that help indicate movement towards the goals. Typically in tech parlance, Objectives are "a significant, concrete, clearly defined goal", but life isn't like a shippable product or feature so I'll be a bit loose with that definition.

### [Objective] Continually improve health

Last year, I did well continuing my lifting streak with 175 works and lifting every week (currently at over 3 years of at least weekly lifting!). I didn't gain any more weight, but I am still heavier than my ideal weight hovering around 220lbs. My main key result for the year will be losing weight, with the mechanism of doing so being to increase activity, improve food choices through meal prep, and reducing alcohol consumption.

- [KR] Lifting 1x/week
- [KR] Run 1x/week
- [KR] 8k steps/day average
- [KR] <= 2 drinks/week
- [KR] Weight reduced 220lbs --> 200lbs

Some things here like "do meal prep" I don't particularly want to list as KR. Additionally, these are my low-end bars and if I do better, great!

### [Objective] Establish a new career path

This year I hit my FI number despite being laid off. With this, my immediate salary and bumps to that aren't really what needs to drive me and instead I seek to find out what I want from a career going forward. I considered for a period just stepping out of the game, but I do mostly enjoy work and still thinking being very early on at a startup some day would be interesting.

- [KR] Write out a broad vision for my career future with some hypothetical milestones along the way.
- [KR] Get a mentor.
- [KR] Read 3 books on the topic.

### [Objective] Live a more memorable life

The years keep coming and they don't stop coming. I think my highest goal is to be able to look back on my life and think I lived it well, and a big part of that is doing more memorable things.

- [KR] Continue to reduce screen time in order to effectively use time.
- [KR] Do 4 significant trips with the family throughout the year (this will hopefully increase in the future).
- [KR] Do something memorable monthly.
- [KR] Blog weekly

It's so easy to be tired or lazy. This is an objective to realize that time is finite and make the most of it.

### [Objective] Cultivate deep relationships

One thing I've discovered being a new parent is the ease of creating shallow friendships and the challenge of deeper ones. It's easy for me to pick up a conversation with another parent at the park or arrange play dates where the focus is the kids, but getting deeper than that and developing real relationships takes work. Also with kids, where a couple-focused relationship was easy, it now takes work to take the time to _be_ a couple.

- [KR] Some periodic friend-only activity established.
- [KR] Bi-weekly date nights.
- [KR] Time spent with family outside just childcare time.
- [KR] At least 1 trip with non-local friends.
- [KR] Host bi-weekly pizza nights

## Conventional "New Year's Resolutions"

Just for fun I'm going to pop out some resolutions, mostly so I can look back and grade myself on this hodge-podge next year.

- Run Bloomsday
  - Stretch: Break 1h05m
- Run 3x 5K races
  - Stretch: Break 22m
- Compete in a powerlifting meet
  - Stretch: Break 1000 lbs
- Get a promotion, bump in equity/comp, or some other external validation
- Do 3 flights (or longer drives, not Seattle) with the kids
- Get below 15% bodyfat
- Go overnight camping with at least one of the kids

## What could throw things off my goals?

- **Health issues or injuries**: I need to make sure I listen to my body.
- **Family health issues**: Not much I can do here.
- **Spending too much time at work**: For the life I want to live, I need balance and I need to make sure I don't go too far down this path.
- **Checking out from work**: If I'm not enjoying what I'm doing such that I check out, this is a sign I need to adjust something.
- **I get lazy and don't do things**: Work, family, and fitness take a lot of energy and it can be hard to actually prioritize doing things that stretch you.
- **Not prioritizing things that need planning**: I do not like planning social things, but to cultivate relationships you need this.
